DEVELOPER ONBOARDING GUIDE — DevMind Engineering

Welcome to the DevMind engineering team. This guide walks you through everything you need to get your development environment running and make your first contribution.

PREREQUISITES
Install the following tools before cloning the repository:
- Python 3.11 or higher (use pyenv to manage Python versions)
- Node.js 20 LTS and npm 10+ (use nvm to manage Node versions)
- Docker Desktop 4.x (required for running local services)
- Git 2.40+ with GPG signing configured
- VS Code with the DevMind recommended extension pack (devmind.extensions)

REPOSITORY ACCESS
Request access to the devmind GitHub organization from your engineering manager.
Enable two-factor authentication on your GitHub account before access is granted.
Clone the main repository: git clone git@github.com:devmind/platform.git
Set up your SSH key and add it to your GitHub account if you haven't already.

ENVIRONMENT SETUP
Copy the environment template: cp .env.example .env
Fill in your personal API keys and local database credentials in .env.
Never commit the .env file. It is listed in .gitignore.
Install Python dependencies: pip install -r requirements.txt
Install development extras: pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
Install pre-commit hooks: pre-commit install
Install JavaScript dependencies: npm install

RUNNING LOCALLY
Start local infrastructure: docker compose up -d (starts PostgreSQL, Redis, and RabbitMQ)
Run database migrations: python manage.py migrate
Start the backend API: python run.py (runs on http://localhost:5000)
Start the frontend dev server: npm run dev (runs on http://localhost:3000)
Access the local admin panel at http://localhost:5000/admin (credentials in .env)

FIRST WEEK CHECKLIST
Day 1: Set up your environment and run the test suite: pytest (all tests must pass).
Day 2: Read the architecture overview in docs/architecture.md and ask your buddy any questions.
Day 3: Pick your first onboarding ticket from the JIRA board (labeled onboarding-good-first-issue).
Day 4-5: Implement the ticket with pair-programming support from your assigned buddy.
Week 2: Participate in code review as both author and reviewer.

TEAM PRACTICES
Daily standups are at 9:30 AM. Share what you did yesterday, what you are doing today, and any blockers.
Sprint planning happens every two weeks on Monday. Retrospectives are on Friday before planning.
All design decisions that affect more than one team must go through the RFC process (docs/rfc-process.md).
Ask questions in the #engineering Slack channel. No question is too basic.
